Figure 4: Planning Action Synthesis.
orders equal options,” and narrows the answer to Riyadh Air. Since these facts are recent and fluid,
reliable resolution typically requires external retrieval with search tools.
2.2.2
Planning Action Synthesis
While we have constructed large-scale, scalable questions to cover diverse scenarios, questions alone
cannot constitute complete agent training data, because corresponding reasoning processes and action
sequences are also required.
Scalability Challenges. The intuitive solution is to leverage LLMs to perform tool invocations and
reasoning for each question, generating complete agent trajectories. However, this approach faces severe
scalability bottlenecks: (1) commercial API costs are prohibitively expensive, particularly for search
engine APIs (e.g., Google Search API) and web access APIs (e.g., Jina Reader API (Jina.ai, 2025) and
Scraper (scr, 2025)); (2) complete trajectory generation is inefficient and cannot meet the massive data
requirements for continual pre-training.
Insighs. To address this challenge, we propose a scalable reasoning-action synthesis approach. We
observe that the initial analysis of complex problems by LLMs typically involves problem decomposition,
information requirement identification, and solution planning, which inherently constitutes high-quality
planning data. More importantly, the quality of first-step reasoning exhibits strong positive correlation
with final task completion rates.
Based on this finding and inspired by multi-reference learning (Zheng et al., 2018; Banerjee & Lavie, 2005),
FAS generates multiple reasoning-action data for each problem in planning action synthesis. As illustrated
in Figure 4 (left), given a query Q, we employ LLMs to generate K diverse problem analyses along with
their corresponding first-step action predictions (tool invocations or direct answers). This approach yields
two key advantages: (1) it generates only reasoning chains and tool calls without incurring actual API
invocation costs during training data production; (2) the K distinct analytical perspectives effectively
expand the action space exploration for each problem.
However, we realize that the aforementioned approach faces two limitations: (1) the generated reasoning-
action data may still exhibit similarity despite adjusting parameters like temperature to enhance diversity;
(2) it leads to repetitive question text in training data, which is not our optimization target. To address
these issues, we propose an improved strategy. Instead of generating K iterations of reasoning-action
data for a single question, we generate reasoning-action data for K different questions that share the
same knowledge memory but differ in style. This approach better covers training contexts and explores
the potential reasoning-action space more comprehensively. In practice, we adopt this question-level
diversity expansion as the planning action synthesis method in FAS.
Reject Sampling with Knowledge Alignment Verification. The reasoning and action predictions are not
always accurate, and we lack end-to-end trajectory signals to verify their correctness. Beneficially, since
the knowledge involved in question construction is accessible, we can implement reject sampling based
on knowledge alignment verification. Specifically, we employ an LLM-as-Judge approach to evaluate
6
