Figure 2: Agentic Training Pipeline.
trajectories as a multi-step decision-making process by expanding potential exploration paths at each step,
including reasoning and tool invocation. We then merge trajectories with newly generated exploration
paths into multi-step decision-making text data. This approach allows models to explore various feasible
behavioral patterns, enhancing their exploration and decision-making capabilities. Importantly, both
synthesis approaches operate without external tool invocations, enabling large-scale data generation in
offline environments without API costs.
To efficiently absorb these two types of synthesis agentic data, we propose a progressive two-stage
training strategy. The first stage primarily utilizes FAS data and short HAS data within a 32K context
window, while the second stage focuses on high-quality HAS data with an extended 128K context length.
Then, we evaluate AgentFoudner-30B against state-of-the-art (SOTA) models including general LLMs
with tools, commercial and open-source deep research agents across 10 benchmarks. AgentFoudner-30B
achieves superior performance, obtaining 39.9% on BrowseComp-en, 43.3% on BrowseComp-zh, 72.8%
on GAIA, 31.5% on HLE, and 73.0% on xbench-DeepSearch, achieving new SOTA results. Remarkably,
scaling AgentFounder’s training data yields steady performance average gains across all benchmarks,
exhibiting promising scaling law behaviors. Besides, we find that AgentFounder still maintains strong
general tool-use capabilities, suggesting potential for general-purpose agents in the future.
2
AgentFounder: Agentic Foundation Model
This section introduces AgentFounder, our proposed deep research agent that leverages agentic continual
pre-training to create pre-aligned agentic foundation models for downstream fine-tuning. We focus on
detailing how AgentFounder implements Agentic CPT, specifically covering our systematic and scalable
training data synthesis methods and progressive training strategies that prepare foundation models for
effective downstream fine-tuning.
2.1
Overview of Agentic Training Pipeline
Contemporary large language model development follows a well-established two-stage paradigm con-
sisting of pre-training and post-training. During pre-training, models acquire broad knowledge from
diverse data sources including web-crawled text, code repositories, academic literature, books, and news
articles, following the fundamental next-token prediction paradigm with cross-entropy loss:
L = −
T
∑
t=1
log P(xt+1|x1, x2, ..., xt)
(1)
where P(xt+1|x1, x2, ..., xt) = softmax(Woht), ht represents the hidden state at position t, and Wo is the
output projection matrix.
Post-training typically encompasses SFT and RL, enabling LLMs to follow instructions and align with
human preferences. For agentic capabilities, post-training teaches LLMs to utilize tools effectively
and perform multi-step reasoning for complex tasks. To build AgentFounder, we conduct supervised
fine-tuning using a strategically proportioned mixture of general instruction data and agent trajectory
demonstrations to ensure the LLM develops both general-purpose capabilities and specialized agentic
abilities for deep research agents.
3
