CRAWLQA
E2HQA
root
root/…
root/…/…
𝐴
𝑄1
𝐸1𝐸2 … 𝐸𝑛
𝑄2
𝑅1𝐸2 … 𝐸𝑛
𝑄𝑛
𝑅1𝑅2 … 𝐸n
𝑄𝑛+1
𝑅1𝑅2 … 𝑅𝑛
…
𝑄
𝐴
<question>
Which game ranked fourth in the Godot XR 
Game Jam February 2025 but was not featured 
in the 2024 Godot Games showreel?
</question>
<answer>
Keziah’s House
</answer>
<question>
Who received the 
IEEE Frank 
Rosenblatt Award 
in 2010?
</question>
<question>
In 2010, who received an esteemed award named after 
a technology pioneer, honoring their significant 
contributions to fuzzy logic, particularly in the 
realm of intelligent digital technologies and 
industrial processes, utilizing a system noted for 
complex reasoning as opposed to traditional binary 
logic, and different from the Mamdani approach?
</question>
<answer>
Michio Sugeno
</answer>
𝑆(𝐶1)
𝑆(𝐶2)
𝑆(𝐶𝑛)
<question>
In 2010, an accolade 
named after a pioneer in 
artificial intelligence 
was awarded … Who was the 
recipient of this award?
</question>
…
Figure 1: Two web data generation pipelines. ❶For CRAWLQA, we first collect root url of knowlageable
websites. Then we mimic human behavior by systematically clicking and collecting subpages accessible
through sublinks on the root/... page. Using predefined rules, we leverage GPT4o to generate synthetic
QA pairs based on the gathered information. ❷For E2HQA, the initial question Q1 is iteratively evolved
using the new information Ci retrieved from the entity Ei at iteration i, allowing the task to progressively
scale in complexity, from simpler instances to more challenging ones. We use GPT-4o to rewrite the
question until the iteration reaches n.
2
Deep Information Seeking Dataset Synthesis
2.1
QA Pairs Construction
To enable longer-horizon web exploration trajectories, it is essential to curate a substantial corpus
of complex and diverse QA pairs that can elicit multi-step reasoning, goal decomposition, and rich
interaction sequences. The main requirements for these QAs are: (i) diversity of question types, and (ii)
increased task complexity as measured by the number of interaction steps required for resolution. In
contrast to prior datasets that predominantly involve shallow queries solvable in 2–3 steps, our objective
is to scale both the volume and the depth of multi-hop reasoning. To achieve this, we primarily develop
the below datasets: CRAWLQA and E2HQA.
CRAWLQA
Constructing QA pairs based on information crawled from web pages represents an effective
paradigm for scalable knowledge acquisition Wu et al. (2025). We begin by collecting the root URLs of
official and knowledgeable websites spanning arxiv, github, wiki, etc. Mialon et al. (2023) To emulate
human browsing behavior, we recursively navigate subpages by following accessible hyperlinks from
each root site. We employ GPT-4o to synthesize QA pairs from the collected content. To ensure specificity
and relevance of questions, inspired by Sen et al. (2022), we prompt LLMs to generate questions of
designed types (e.g., COUNT, MULTI-HOP, INTERSECTION) via in-context learning Brown et al. (2020).
E2HQA
Similar to the reverse construction strategy Wei et al.; Zhou et al. (2025), we begin from large
QA pairs in SimpleQA style OpenAI (2025b) where each answer is a concise, fact-seeking entity. We
first select an entity En from the question Qn, where n represents the number of refinement iterations.
Then, we use the LLMs to construct a query based on this entity in order to search via search engine S for
information Cn related to En. After that, we use LLMs π to restructure the obtained content into a new
query Rn to replace the original entity in the question. The process can be signaled as: Rn = π(S(Cn)).
This way, the new question Qn+1 requires solving the sub-problem we have constructed before finding
3
