the answer to the original question. Moreover, it ensures that the answer does not change during the
question refinement, thereby preserving the validity of the QA pairs. By continuously searching, we
can gradually rephrase an initially simple question into a more complex multi-step one. Moreover, the
number of steps needed to solve the problem can be controlled by adjusting the number of rephrasing
times.
2.2
Agent Trajectories Rejection Sampling
Agent Setup
Our agent framework is based on ReAct Yao et al. (2023), the most popular approach to
language agents. A ReAct trajectory consists of multiple Thought-Action-Observation rounds, where
an LM generates free-form Thought for versatile purposes, and structured Action to interact with
environments (tools) and receive Observation feedback. We assume that the agent execution loop
at time t can be denoted as (τt, αt, ot), where τ denotes Thought, α signifies Action, and o represents
Observation. α can be further expressed as (αm, αp), where αm is the name of the action, and αp is the
parameters required to perform the action. αm ∈{search, visit, answer}, which corresponds to the two
most important agentic tools in the deep information seeking. For search
action, αp consists of query
and filter_year, while for visit
action, αp consists of goal and url_link. The observation of search action
includes the Top-10 titles and snippets, whereas the observation of the visit action is the evidence and
summary, generated by a summarizer model Ms. The iteration terminates when the action is answer.
Then the historical trajectory can be signaled as:
Ht = (τ0, α0, o0, τ1, ..., τt−1, αt−1, ot−1).
(1)
At time step t, the agent receives an observation ot from the web environment and generates thought τt
taking an action αt, following poliy π(τt, αt|Ht).
The Chain-of-Thought (CoT) method has significantly enhanced the inferential capabilities of LLMs
through a step-by-step reasoning process Wei et al. (2022), corresponding to the thought component in
agentic systems. This process is critical for agentic execution, enabling high-level workflow planning,
self-reflection, information extraction, adaptive action planning, and accurate action (tool usage).
Short and Long CoT Construction
Agent models internalise the CoT generation capability as an active
behavioral component of the model. Zhang et al. (2025e); Mai et al. (2025) The length of CoT and the
associated thinking patterns play a crucial role in performance Team (2025a); Guo et al. (2025); Wu
et al. (2024) We propose two simple yet effective methods for constructing the short CoT and long CoT,
respectively. For short CoTs, we directly leverage the ReAct framework to collect the trajectories using
a powerful model, GPT-4o. For long CoTs, we sequentially provide the LRMs, QwQ-Plus, with the
historical actions and observations at each step, enabling it to decide the next action autonomously.
Notably, we exclude the previous thought during further inference, as the LRM, QwQ-Plus, has not been
exposed to multi-step reasoning inputs during training. However, we retain the thought at each step in
the generated trajectory, as they serve as valuable supervision signals. The LRM’s intermediate reasoning
process, denoted as, denoted as “<reasoning_content>”, is recorded as the current thought of the current
step. Each constructed QA instance undergoes rejection sampling up to N times to ensure quality and
coherence.
Trajectories Filtering
We adopt a three-stage funnel-based trajectory filtering framework consisting of
validity control, correctness verification, and quality assessment.
• For validity control, directly prompting LLMs to generate responses in the ReAct format under
long-content conditions may result in non-compliance with instructions. In such cases, we
discard these data points.
• For correctness verification, we only retain correct results. We follow the evaluation methodology
proposed by Phan et al. (2025) and Wei et al. and use GPT-4o for accurate judgment.
4
