endowing the web agent with robust behavior across out-of-distribution web environments, complex
interaction patterns, and long-term objectives.
To address these challenges, our objective is to unlock the autonomous multi-turn information-seeking
agency, exploring how to build a web agent like Deep Research from scratch. An agent model like
Deep Research produces sequences of interleaved reasoning and action steps, where each action invokes
a tool to interact with the external environment autonomously. Observations from these interactions
guide subsequent reasoning and actions until the task is completed. This process is optimized through
end-to-end tool-augmented training. The ReAct framework Yao et al. (2023) is the most suitable paradigm,
as it tightly couples reasoning with action to facilitate effective learning and generalization in interactive
settings.
We aim to provide the research community with a systematic guideline for building such agents from a
data-centric and training-stage perspective.
From a data-centric perspective, constructing web QA data is crucial to building web agents, regardless
of whether the training paradigm is SFT or RL. Widely used QA datasets are often shallow, typically
consisting of problems that can be solved with a single or a few-turn search. Previous works often filter
the difficult QA pairs from open-sourced human-labeled datasets using prompting techniques Song et al.
(2025). Additionally, challenging web-based QA datasets typically only have test or validation sets, and
their data size is relatively small. For example, GAIA Mialon et al. (2023) only has 466, WebWalkerQA Wu
et al. (2025) contains 680 examples, and BrowseComp Wei et al. has 1,266, making them insufficient for
effective training. Therefore, the automatic synthesis of high-quality datasets becomes crucial. Fang et al.
(2025); Zuo et al. (2025). We synthesise the datasets in two ways: 1). By crawling web pages to construct
deep queries, referred to as CRAWLQA, enabling the acquisition of web information through click actions.
2). By enhancing easy-to-hard QA pairs synthesis to incentivize the progression from weak-to-strong
agency, transforming simple questions into complex ones, termed E2HQA.
From a training-stage perspective, prior work has explored SFT or off-policy RL, but these approaches
often face generalization issues, particularly in complex, real-world search environments. Other methods
adopt on-policy RL directly Chen et al. (2025), but in multi-tool settings, early training steps tend to
focus primarily on learning tool usage via instruction following. To enable more efficient and effective
training, we adopt a two-stage approach combining rejection sampling fine-tuning (RFT) with subsequent
on-policy RL. For the trajectory sampling, we restrict the action space to two commonly effective web
information-seeking tools as action: search
and click
. Building on this setup, we employ rejection
sampling to generate trajectories using two prompting strategies: one with a strong instruction LLMs
for Short-CoT and another leveraging the LRMs for Long-CoT. These yield high-quality trajectories
containing either short or long thought, respectively. In the RL stage, we adopt the Decoupled Clip
and Dynamic Sampling Policy Optimization (DAPO) algorithm Yu et al. (2025), whose dynamic sampling
mechanism can effectively exploit QA pairs that remain underutilized during the SFT phase, thereby
enhancing data efficiency and policy robustness.
Our key contributions can be summarized as follows: we abstract the end-to-end web agents building
pipeline into four key stages: Step I: Construct diverse and challenging deep information seeking QA
pairs based on the real-world web environment (§2.1); Step II: Sample high-quality trajectories from QA
pairs using both LLMs and LRMs to guide the agency learning process (§2.2); Step III: Perform fine-tuning
to adapt the format instruction following to agentic tasks and environments (§3.1); Step IV: Apply RL to
optimize the agent’s decision-making and generalization capabilities in real-world web environments
(§3.2). We offer a systematic, end-to-end pipeline for building long-term information-seeking web agents.
Extensive experiments on two web information seeking benchmarks, GAIA and WebWalkerQA, show the
effectiveness of our pipeline and WebDancer (§4). We further present a comprehensive analysis covering
data efficiency, agentic system evaluation, and agent learning (§5).
2
