Case Trajectory in GAIA
Answer the following questions as best you can.
Allowed tools: Only use tools listed in {tool_descs}‘ or can be Final Answer: . You must also
ensure that the Final Answer is accurate and reliable.
You have access to the following tools:
{tool_descs}
Begin!
Output Format:
Action: the action to take, should be one of [{tool_names}] Action Input: the input to the action,
use JSON Schema with explicit parameters, when the action is ’Final Answer’, do not have Action
Input, directly return the answer
You may take as many steps as necessary. Always use the tools to gather information before
making a final answer.
When you want to make a tool call, please output complete "Action: " and "Action Input: " to
make the tool call successful and then output "Observation: " to make the tool call successful.
Question: {query}
Figure 7: Prompts for ReAct using LRMs.
F
Case Study
As shown in Figure 8, several sophisticated thinking patterns are demonstrated as below:
• Step-by-step Decomposition WebDancer breaks down a complex problem into smaller, manage-
able steps with "First ... Then ... Finally".
• Hypothesis Testing WebDancer proposes hypotheses and verifies their validity. It assumes that
“Nemo” from Finding Nemo is the orange clownfish (Amphiprion ocellaris). It validates this
assumption by consulting the USGS database for non-native occurrences.
• Handling Information Gaps When certain information is missing, WebDancer takes action to fill
the gap actively.
• Iterative Reflection After failing to find the ZIP code in the USGS database, WebDancer realizes
it needs to search for the specific address separately. Through a second search, it successfully
retrieves the ZIP code. This demonstrates the Agent’s flexibility and adaptability when facing
uncertainty.
Case Trajectory in GAIA
Question: I’m researching species that became invasive after people who kept them as pets
released them. There’s a certain species of fish that was popularized as a pet by being the main
character of the movie Finding Nemo. According to the USGS, where was this fish found as a
nonnative species, before the year 2020? I need the answer formatted as the five-digit zip codes of
the places the species was found, separated by commas if there is more than one place.
Step 1
<think>
Okay, let’s tackle this question step by step. The user wants to know the zip codes where the fish
from Finding Nemo, which became invasive after being released by pet owners, was found as a
21
