We present WebWalkerQA in this section, starting with an overview of the data collection process to
ensure quality (§3.1), followed by a discussion of WebWalkerQA’s statistics (§3.2). Finally, we introduce
the new task, Web Traversal, and describe the evaluation metrics for WebWalkerQA(§3.3).
3.1
Data Collection
To make the annotation process cost-efficient and accurate, we employ a two-stage funnel annotation
strategy, combining LLM-based and human annotation. In the first stage, GPT-4o (OpenAI, 2022b),
performs initial annotations, followed by a second stage, where crowd-sourced human annotators
conduct quality control and filtering to refine the final results. The overall data collection pipeline is
illustrated in Figure 2.
LLM-based Annotation
The collection pipeline is outlined as follows:
• Step1: Traverse official websites recursively, collecting information on accessible sub-links and
their respective pages.
• Step2: Construct queries based on the provided page information and specified role, such as
focusing on the solo page or considering both pages simultaneously.
• Step3: Verify and filter for legitimate queries that deviate from natural, human-like phrasing,
retaining only QA pairs with short answers containing entities.
The additional details, including step-specific prompts and case examples, are provided in Appendix E.
As illustrated in Figure 2 (b), our dataset construction includes both multi-source and single-source
types, corresponding to two types of human information-seeking behaviours within web pages. The
single-source type simulates a user deeply exploring a single piece of information hidden within web
pages, while the multi-source type simulates multi-source scenarios where users rely on multiple
pages to solve a query. Notably, the multi-source QA tasks can not be easily exploited by search engine
shortcuts (Mavi et al., 2024).
Human Annotation
After the synthetic queries are generated by LLM, human annotators can rewrite
and calibrate the questions and answers to ensure the QA pairs are correct and consistent.
3.2
Data Statistics
Through such data construction method with LLM and human participation, we obtain 680 question-
answer pairs for WebWalkerQA. The annotated case is shown in Figure 8. We will provide comprehensive
statistics on WebWalkerQA, categorized by type, domain, and language.
Single-source QAs
Multi-source QAs
Easy
Medium
Hard
Easy
Medium
Hard
80
140
120
80
140
120
Table 2: Dataset statistics on data difficulty level.
Type
WebWalkerQA contains two types of data:
multi-source and single-source QAs.
Single-
source QAs are labeled as single_sourcei, where i ∈
[2, 4], denoting the depth of the corresponding sub-
page. Similarly, Multi-source QAs are labeled as
multi_sourcei, where i ∈[2, 8], representing the sum
of the depths of the two associated subpages2. In
other words, answering this query requires reading
both pages simultaneously.
Difficulty Level
We categorize the questions into three difficulty levels: easy, medium, and hard,
based on the value of i. Specifically, single_source2, single_source3, and single_source4 correspond to
2Taking multi_source6 as an example, it may refer to a query constructed from two 3rd level pages or from one
page at the 2nd level and another at the 4th level.
4
