challenges, emphasizing the depth of the source information across education, conference, organization,
and game domains, where official sources are published and paths to information are more structured
with clickable buttons and reasoning logic. Several types, including multi-source and single-source
QAs, are developed to evaluate the ability of LLMs to mimic different human web-navigation paradigms.
Additionally, we introduce a strong baseline WebWalker, a multi-agent framework designed to em-
ulate human-like web navigation through vertical exploration.
The framework consists of an ex-
plorer agent and a critic agent. Given the need for reasoning capabilities to navigate and interact
with web pages effectively, the explorer agent is built upon the ReAct framework (Yao et al., 2023),
Figure 1: A multi-source QA1example from Web-
WalkerQA that requires traversing web pages to
gather information for answering the given ques-
tion.
leveraging a thought-action-observation paradigm,
while the critic agent is responsible for maintain-
ing memory and generating responses based on
the exploration conducted by the explorer agent.
We evaluate the performance of the WebWalker,
built on various mainstream LLMs, including both
closed-source and open-sourced, using WebWalk-
erQA as the benchmark.
However, even with
the most powerful LLMs as the backbone, its per-
formance on WebWalkerQA remains suboptimal,
thereby validating the challenge posed by Web-
WalkerQA.
We then conduct further experiments to validate
the integration with the RAG for information-
seeking QA tasks. Our findings are as follows:
(i) Web navigation still requires efforts in tasks
that demand planning and reasoning; (ii) By com-
bining RAG with the WebWalker, this horizontal
and vertical coordination proves effective; (iii) Vertical exploration of pages offers a promising direction
for scaling inference time in RAG systems.
The contributions of our work are as follows:
• We construct a challenging benchmark, WebWalkerQA, which is composed of 680 queries from
four real-world scenarios across over 1373 webpages.
• To tackle the challenge of web-navigation tasks requiring long context, we propose WebWalker,
which utilizes a multi-agent framework for effective memory management.
• Extensive experiments show that the WebWalkerQA is challenging, and for information-seeking
tasks, vertical exploration within the page proves to be beneficial.
2
Related Work
2.1
Web-Oriented Benchmark
Before the era of LLMs, several web-oriented benchmarks had already been proposed (Liu et al., 2018;
Xu et al., 2021; Humphreys et al., 2022; Yao et al., 2022; Mialon et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2024). LLMs are
capable of interacting with complex environments, like the open web in HTML or DOM format (Tan
et al., 2024), leading to the development of an increasing number of benchmarks aimed at evaluating the
interaction capabilities of LLMs with web content. The widely used benchmark today, Mind2Web (Deng
et al., 2023), is a dataset designed for evaluating web agents that follow instructions to complete complex
tasks, typically through multiple-choice questions. Subsequent works have extended the interaction to
1In our paper, multi-source refers to the requirement of information from multi distinct web pages.
2
