the easy, medium, and hard levels, respectively. Similarly, for multi-source questions, multi_source2−4,
multi_source4−6, and multi_source6−8 correspond to the easy, medium, and hard levels, respectively. The
data statistics for the different data types are presented in Table 2.
Domain
WebWalkerQA encompasses four real-world domains: conference, organization, education,
and game. These domains are selected because they provide authoritative information relevant to their
respective fields, and their pages contain rich clickable content, offering substantial depth for exploration.
39.5%
60.5%
Language Distribution
Languages
English
Chinese
24.0%
46.3%
7.9%
21.9%
Domain Distribution
Domains
Conference
Education
Organization
Game
Figure 3: The language and domain distribution.
Language
WebWalkerQA is a bilingual dataset that
includes both Chinese and English3, reflecting the
most widely used and universal languages in real-
world web environments.
The statistics of WebWalkerQA on domain and lan-
guage are illustrated in Figure 3. The proportions of
the conference, organization, education, and game
domains are 24.0%, 7.9%, 46.3%, and 24.0%, respec-
tively. In terms of language distribution, Chinese and English account for 60.5%, 39.5%, respectively.
WebWalkerQA features a diverse distribution of languages and domains to ensure a comprehensive
evaluation.
3.3
Web Traversal Task and Evaluation
Formally, given an initial website URL Uroot and a query Q, which needs to be answered by exploring
the website. The goal of this task is to gather enough information through page traversal to ultimately
answer the query Q. The task is to navigate the website to find the corresponding information.
WebWalkerQA can be evaluated from both performance and efficiency perspectives. using question-
answering accuracy (acc.) as the performance metric and the action count (A.C.) of successful agentic
executions answering correctly as the efficiency metric. Due to the varying lengths of generated text, it is
challenging to perform exact match evaluation, even though we have controlled for short answers. We
use GPT-4 as the evaluator, which determines the correctness of responses by comparing the predicted
answer with the ground truth using CoT prompting strategy (Wei et al., 2022)4.
4
WebWalker
We introduce WebWalker, a multi-agent framework designed to interact with web environments to
answer queries. The WebWalker framework consists of two agents: an explorer agent and a critic agent.
As illustrated in Figure 4, the explorer agent traverses the web pages in Thought-Action-Observation
(T , A, O) paradigms. The critic agent updates the memory until sufficient information is accumulated
to effectively address the query. The details regarding prompts for both agents are presented in Ap-
pendix E.3.
4.1
Think then Explore
The explorer agent explores the subpages by interacting with HTML buttons on the page. At time step t,
the explorer agent receives an observation Ot from the web environment and takes an action At, following
the policy π(At|Ht). The observation Ot = (pt, lt) consists of the information from the current page pt
and a set of clickable sublinks lt = {buttoni}K
i=1, where each buttoni describes HTML button information
3Classification based on the language of the root webpages.
4https://api.python.langchain.com/en/latest/langchain/evaluation.html, Details of the prompt for the
evaluator are provided in Appendix F
5
