A
Limitations and Discussion
We discuss the following limitations:
Dataset Size: Due to the complexity of queries in the web-agent domain, similar to benchmarks such as
AssistantBench (Yoran et al., 2024) (214) and MMIna (Zhang et al., 2024c) (1,050), GAIA (Mialon et al.,
2024) (466), our proposed WebWalkerQA currently comprises 680 high-quality QA pairs. Additionally,
we possess a collection of approximately 14k silver QA pairs, which, although not yet carefully human-
verified, can serve as supplementary training data to enhance agent performance, leaving room for
further exploration.
Multimodal Environment: In this work, we only utilize HTML-DOM to parse clickable buttons. In fact,
visual modalities, such as screenshots, can also assist and provide a more intuitive approach (Nguyen
et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2024a; He et al., 2024b). We leave this for future work.
Agent Tuning: WebWalker is driven by prompting without additional training. We can use agent tuning
to help LLMs learn web traversal. This involves fine-tuning models with golden trajectories, enabling
them to take effective actions for completing information-seeking tasks (Zeng et al., 2024; Chen et al.,
2024b; Zhang et al., 2024b; Qiao et al., 2024; Zhu et al., 2024).
Better Integration with RAG Systems: In §6.2, the root url is provided for the WebWalker to execute.
To better integrate with the RAG system, one approach could be to first rewrite the query within the
RAG system to refine the search, directing it to the query’s official websites likely to contain relevant
information. The WebWalker can then be used to extract useful information. Both the knowledge
retrieved from the RAG system and the information mined by the WebWalker can be combined as
augmented retrieval knowledge for generation, leading to a better result.
WebWalker can function independently as a web information retrieval assistant for a given webpage or
seamlessly integrate with RAG systems to expand their scope. Under the agentic RAG paradigm, the
click
action proves to be highly effective.
B
Implementation Details
In this study, we utilize Qwen-Agent11 as the foundational codebase for building and developing the
baselines proposed WebWalker. The details of LLM hyperparameters for generation are as follows:
topp = 0.8. We sincerely thank the contributors and maintainers of ai4crawl12 for their open-source tool,
which helped us get web pages in a Markdown-like format. We will release the code of WebWalker in
GitHub.
C
Details for RAG Systems
We select five mainstream commercial systems and two open-source systems for evaluation.
C.1
Commercial Systems
Doubao13, ERNIE-4.0-8K14, Tongyi, Kimi, and Gemini-Search are all accessed through their business-
oriented API interfaces to ensure reproducibility. The detailed configuration of each API can be found in
our codebase.
C.2
Open-sourced Systems
(a) Mindsearch (Chen et al., 2024a) is to mimic the human minds in web information seeking and
integration, which can be instantiated by a multi-agent framework consisting of a WebPlanner and
11https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen-Agent
12https://github.com/unclecode/crawl4ai
13https://www.volcengine.com/docs/82379/1302004
14https://cloud.baidu.com/doc/WENXINWORKSHOP/s/clntwmv7t
16
