Automatic Synthetic Data
Real Environment
Simulated Environment
Search
Visit
Python Interpreter
Google Scholar
Async Call
Action
Collect
Preservation
Update
Utilization
Rollout Worker
Trajectory
Reward Service
Async Rollout Service
Observation
Figure 2: An overview of our Reinforcement Learning framework. The agent is trained in a closed loop
where the policy is continuously updated through interactions with simulated or real-world environments.
A key component is the automated data synthesis and filtering pipeline, which dynamically curates
training data based on the training dynamics.
4
Agentic Post-training
In this section, we will introduce the post-training pipeline, including SFT cold start, simulated and real
RL environments, and details of the RL training algorithm.
4.1
SFT Cold Start
The initial phase of our agentic post-training pipeline is a SFT stage, designed to equip the base model
with a robust initial policy before advancing to reinforcement learning. To maintain a controlled and
high-quality training environment, our SFT dataset is composed entirely of synthetic data generated from
SailorFog-QA-V2. The trajectories for SFT are constructed by open-source models to solve the generated
QA tasks with rejection sampling. In a notable departure from the original WebSailor, our agent is built
upon the Qwen3-30B-A3B-Thinking-2507 (Yang et al., 2025) as the base model, with the context length
increased to 128k.
4.2
Agentic Reinforcement Learning
Simulated environment.
Training in simulation environments and then transferring the trained policy
to the real world, or using simulation environments for algorithm validation, is a very common and
essential research and development strategy (Da et al., 2025), which has been applied in various do-
mains (Osi´nski et al., 2020; Haiderbhai et al., 2024; Ho et al., 2021). Relying on real-world web APIs, such
as those from SerpAPI (SerpAPI, 2025) or Jina (Jina.ai, 2025), introduces significant practical challenges,
including high costs, limited QPS, and inconsistent outputs. During the initial stages of development,
conducting algorithm research and data curation in a real environment with finite resources can dras-
tically slow the development cycle and lead to less-than-solid conclusions from ablation studies. To
address this, we build a simulated environment using an offline Wikipedia database and a corresponding
suite of web tools. To populate this environment with high-quality, structurally complex tasks, we
adapted our SailorFog-QA-V2 generation pipeline to operate on this offline corpus, thereby creating
a dedicated set of training and testing data tailored to the simulation. This has enabled us to conduct
high-frequency algorithmic experiments on a highly cost-efficient, fast, and fully controllable platform,
thereby significantly accelerating our development and iteration process.
Real environment.
While the simulated environment is invaluable for rapid prototyping and algorithm
validation, the ultimate goal is to train the agent in a real-world setting. This transition, however,
introduces a host of engineering complexities. Our agent’s toolkit is multifaceted, integrating multiple
5
