C
Implementation Details
In this section, we elaborate on the implementation details of all inference paradigms, and RL training
configurations.
C.1
Implementation of Inference Paradigms
For our experimented agents, WebSailor-series, all are constrained by a context window of 32k tokens.
We adpot the following settings for each inference paradigm. Note that for all inference paradigms, the
maximum tool calling budget is 60 for a single query, and the LLM hyper-parameters are uniformly set
with a temperature of 0.6 and top_p of 0.95.
• ReAct: Appending every thought, action, and observation into the conversation history. At each
step, we detect the conversation window and terminate as failure if the agent has reached the
context window without outputting the answer.
• Recent History: Whenever the context window has reached the limit, we truncate the conver-
sation by only preserving the recent 22k tokens of messages, in this way, we can restart the
conversation as well as preserving extra space for possible exploration.
• ReSum: We consistently set the trigger for summarization as reaching the context limit, and then
invoke ReSumTool-30B for conversation compression unless specifically stated.
In our current implementation of ReSum, we use a rule-based mechanism for summary triggering, i.e.,
reaching the token budget, which has the benefits of simple implementation and high efficiency, e.g.,
avoiding repeated summarization.
C.2
RL Training Configuration
We implement both GRPO and ReSum-GRPO for training web agents based on the rLLM framework (Tan
et al., 2025). For both RL algorithms, all tool invocation results are excluded from loss calculation to
prevent bias towards tool outputs.
Shared Hyper-parameters: For both RL algorithms, we consistently adopt a batch_size of 64, group
size of 8, learning_rate of 2e −6, and 4 epochs due to the limited 1K training samples. Such consistent
parameter settings ensure a fair comparison between algorithms.
Algorithm-specific Settings: For GRPO, the maximum number of tool calls is set to 40, with a total
token limit of 32k, where 2k tokens are allocated for the query prompt and 30k for responses, including
thoughts, actions, and responses of tool calls. For ReSum-GRPO, the maximum number of tool calls is
increased to 60, with 4k tokens allocated for the query prompt and 28k for responses. When the token
limit is reached, the system invokes ReSumTool-30B to summarize the context, restart the conversation,
and collect segmented trajectories from the prior process.
17
