1
Introduction
Deep research agents represents a new frontier in Artificial Intelligence (AI), where Large Language
Models (LLMs) go beyond static prompts to plan multi-step tasks: issuing search queries, reading
documents, browsing the web, and refining answers through iterative reasoning (OpenAI, 2025a; Google,
2024; Perplexity, 2025). Many open-source, text-only web agents for deep research (Li et al., 2025b;a;
Wu et al., 2025a; Zheng et al., 2025) have demonstrated superhuman abilities to interact with intricate
information environments, achieving remarkable performance on high-difficulty benchmarks such as
BrowseComp (Wei et al., 2025a) and Humanity’s Last Exam (HLE) (Phan et al., 2025). However, most
advances to date remain primarily text-centric, neglecting the rich visual information omnipresent in real-
world scenarios. Many research-centric and everyday tasks such as interpreting scientific diagrams (Hu
et al., 2024), analyzing graphics (Wang et al., 2024b), or navigating visually rich web interfaces (Hong
et al., 2024), demand integrated vision-language reasoning (Dong et al., 2025). While proprietary agents
have made strides in this area, multimodal deep research remains largely unexplored, with few agents
tackling high-difficulty Vision-Language (VL) tasks (Xu & Peng, 2025; Hu et al., 2025).
The key challenge lies that current multimodal deep research agents rely on rigid, template-driven
pipelines limited to specific scenarios, lacking the flexible reasoning required for real research challenges.
On the one hand, many existing VL Agents rely mainly on visual tools to perform image-based reasoning,
such as optical character recognition (OCR), bounding box extraction, image cropping, visual annotation
and so on (Zhao et al., 2025; Su et al., 2025a;b). While visual tools assist agents in handling perceptual
tasks, they struggle to integrate visual reasoning with deep textual understanding and cross-modal
inference, falling short in tackling high-difficulty tasks that require complex reasoning. As shown in
Fig. 2, when faced with a high-difficulty case from GAIA (Mialon et al., 2023), visual-only analysis
fails to yield a solution, highlighting that VL Agents remain confined to perception tasks. On the other
hand, only use search tools restricts Search Agents to retrieval tasks and prevents them from solving
complex real-world tasks (Wu et al., 2025b). Although retrieval-augmented reasoning can handle many
knowledge-based questions, it often fails when answers are implicit, require structured interactions, or
demand additional computation (Shen et al., 2024; Gu et al., 2025). For example, some problems require
executing code to interpret charts, performing step-by-step calculations, or browsing dynamic webpages
to extract up-to-date or structured content. As illustrated in Fig. 2, solving this case requires not only
searching, but also tools to click through relevant links and browse the resulting webpage to gather
necessary information.
To address this gap, agents for VL deep research require not only strong reasoning abilities across both
textual and visual information, but also effective use of multiple external tools. Thus, we introduce
WebWatcher, a VL web agent with deep research capability.
In order to achieve strong reasoning abilities across both textual and visual information, it is essential to
construct data that combine high-quality visual content with complex reasoning. However, most current
visual question answering (VQA) data primarily focus on visual perception with single-step inference,
lacking planning complexity and reasoning depth needed to support advanced agent capabilities (Chen
et al., 2024; Li et al., 2025c). Thus, we introduce a pipeline to generate training data that benefits in-depth,
multi-step reasoning and strategic planning, encouraging agents to synthesize information across both
modalities. Importantly, we begin by harvesting real-world knowledge via random walks over diverse
web sources to build high-difficulty question answering (QA) examples with unpredictable, multi-hop
reasoning chains (Wu et al., 2025a; Li et al., 2025a), closely resembling the information-seeking and
compositional nature of BrowseComp tasks (Wei et al., 2025b). To further raise the complexity, we
mask key entities in questions, replacing specific terms with generic description, forcing models to infer
relationships from context. Next, we convert this enriched QA pairs into multimodal VQA items using an
adaptable QA-to-VQA pipeline compatible with most existing QA datasets, enabling substantial scaling
of multimodal datasets. Finally, a multi-stage filtering process ensures the quality and clarity of the
2
