1
Introduction
The emergence of Large Language Model (LLM)-powered language agents has marked a paradigm-
shifting advance in artificial intelligence, enabling transformative solutions to previously intractable
challenges across domains (Guo et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2024; AutoGPT, 2023; Wu et al., 2023; Ye et al.,
2023). Information-seeking (IS) represents a core component of the cognitive autonomy of language
agents. This capability not only underpins their adaptability in open-ended tasks but also powers a range
of powerful commercial systems such as Deep Research of OpenAI (OpenAI, 2025), Gemini (Gemini,
2025), and Perplexity (Perplexity, 2025).
Current agentic systems for unlocking this capability typically follow a well-established pipeline in
agent development: (1) First, construct task-specific trajectories of question-answer pairs; (2) Employ
supervised fine-tuning (SFT) to acquire foundational skills (Sun et al., 2025). (3) Generalize strategic
decision-making through on-policy reinforcement learning (RL) (Jin et al., 2025). The entire development
of the IS agent originates from and its ultimate effectiveness depends on high-quality IS task training
data. However, due to its complexity, such a high-quality dataset is both sparse and difficult to construct
through crowdsourcing. Thus, constructing training data through a carefully designed agent pipeline
becomes the cornerstone of effective IS agent development.
(b) Formalization-Driven
(a) Information-Driven
Organized
Information
𝒒𝑻≜  ? 𝑻
Formalization
Synthesized 
Data
source
source
Synthesized 
Data
Figure 2: Data synthesis paradigm shift from information-driven to formalization-driven. “Source”
stands for information sources such as the internet and databases. “Data” represents the synthesized
QA data. (a) Previous methods retrieve and organize collected information in advance, then synthesize
data according to the information structures. (b) Our method establishes the task formalization first, then
collects information, and synthesizes QA data based on the formalization.
Existing IS dataset synthesis methods typically involve freely pre-searching for information online and
employing LLMs to generate questions from the collected content (Figure 2(a)). These approaches first
organize the collected information into structured formats, then prompt the LLM with the structured
data to produce natural language (NL) questions. Their core objective is to map information structures into
reasoning structures within the resulting NL questions. Representative methods like WebDancer (Wu et al.,
2025a) and TaskCraft (Shi et al., 2025a) generate linear information chains, while others construct graphs
connected via web links (Wu et al., 2025b) or entity coreference networks (Li et al., 2025a). However,
these information-driven approaches face two critical limitations. First, the synthesis using LLM may
struggle to fully comprehend the information structure, resulting in inconsistent reasoning structures or
incorrect answers to the generated NL questions. Besides, disordered information retrieval will lead to
excessive data processing and will collect redundant homogeneous information structures, which limits
the diversity of information structures and reduces knowledge coverage.
To overcome these limitations, we propose WebShaper1, a formalization-driven IS data synthesis
paradigm, WebShaper, as illustrated in Figure 2(b). Unlike prior approaches, we first formalize information-
1Without loss of generality, we use WebShaper to denote our data method, dataset, and model.
2
