R(V) = R1(S1) ∩R2(S2) ∩· · · ∩Rn(Sn)
(4)
where Ri are about different relations. For example, if R1 is about playAt and R2 is about bornIn, then
R1({2000}) ∩R2({90s}) stands for players playing in 2000 and born in 90s.
Based on R-Union and Intersection operations, we introduce IS task formalization. First, we define T as a
target set:
T =
p\
i=1
(Ri(Si,1) ∪Ri(Si,2) ∪. . . Ri(Si,ti))).
(5)
Si,j ⊂E is an entity set. More generally, T can be recursivelly derived by replacing Si,j with other target
set as:
T = R1(T1) ∩R2(T2) ∩. . . ∩Rk(Tk)
(6)
An IS task is to find what entities a questioned T contains:
q(T) ≜?T
(7)
Therefore, the question example in Eq. (1) can be formalized as:
q(T) ≜?T =RplayIn(T1) ∩(RplayAt({2004}) ∪RplayAt({2005})) ∩
1999
[
1900
RbornIn({y}))
T1 = R f oundIn({1996}) ∩RisA({East German f ootball team})
(8)
3
Data Synthesis
In this section, we describe the process of our data synthesis with our task formalization. As Eq. (5-7)
shows, an IS task is recursively composited by knowledge projections. In order to better fit the IS task
formalization, we start with constructing a seed task, followed by a multi-step expansion approach.
This expansion process is built upon our formalization. We then introduce an agentic Expander. It can
understand the task formalization with our KP representation. At each expansion step, we implement
the layer-wise expansion to reduce redundancy and reasoning shortcuts. The Expander autonomously
retrieves knowledge from the internet, constructs and validates the new FPs to obtain the new question.
We elaborate on this process in the following sections.
3.1
Seed Question Construction
The first stage of our data synthesis pipeline involves acquiring a substantial volume of diverse and non-
trivial seed questions. To enhance acquisition efficiency, we constructed an offline Wikipedia database
by downloading all URLs corresponding to Wikipedia articles while preserving the hyperlinks between
them. Subsequently, we perform random walks across these articles through their preserved connections.
By aggregating the content from articles traversed during these random walks, we utilize an LLM
to generate synthetic data instances. Critically, the generated question-answer pairs must be entirely
grounded in the content from the collected articles, without relying on external knowledge sources.
However, the resulting seed questions could be noisy and contain hallucinations. We launch a filtering
process. We complete all the seed questions by WebDancer framework (Wu et al., 2025a) based on the
QwQ model (Team, 2025). We perform 5 times rollouts for each question and keep the data where there
5
