5.2
Formalization-based Data Synthesis
Formalization-based data synthesis is common in the study of theorem proving in LLM mathematics.
DeepSeek-MathProver synthesizes data to train a math theorem prover. It transforms high school and
undergraduate level math competition problems into formal statements. It then automatically generates
proofs by an LLM and verify the correctness of these proofs in a Lean 4 environment (Xin et al., 2024).
After that, DeepSeek-MathProverV2 decomposes the proof into subgoals. Then synthesis training data
to train a small model for the subgoal proof in formal statements (Ren et al., 2025). Leang et al. (2025)
synthesizes the training data of Theorem Prover as a Judge based on mathematical formalization. Each
question needs to go through multiple formal language and natural language conversion and verification
processes to ensure the validity of the data. They trained the judger on the synthetic data, and then
used the judger to replace the human evaluation in RLHF (Ouyang et al., 2022), improving the effect of
DPO Rafailov et al. (2023). Goedel-Prover trains LLMs to convert natural language math problems to
formal statements in Lean 4. Next, it creates a large dataset of formal proofs by training a series of provers,
where each new prover can prove statements that could not be proved by previous ones (Lin et al., 2025).
Another group of related studies is synthesizing training data for knowledge base question answering.
These methods formalize the KBQA question via propositional logic. LACT constructs the arbitrary
first-order logical queries similar to Choudhary & Reddy (2023) via binary tree decomposition (Xia et al.,
2025). This results in an SFT dataset. It then fine-tunes on an easy-to-hard curriculum to stimulate the
reasoning capability of LLMs. Rather than proposition logics, our work establishes IS formalization via
set theory.
6
Conclusion
This work presents a paradigm-shifting framework for synthesizing training data WebShaper for
information-seeking (IS) agents through formalization-driven design. By establishing a set theory-based
mathematical formalization of IS tasks, we address critical limitations in existing information-driven
approaches that suffer from structural inconsistencies, task controllability, diversity, and coverage. The
composition of proposed Knowledge Projections enables precise engineering of reasoning structures and
complexity. Our agentic Expander module further ensures systematic expansion of formalized tasks with
a layer-wise expansion paradigm, combining autonomous knowledge retrieval and rigorous validation
to minimize redundancy and prevent reasoning shortcuts. Experimental results demonstrate that Web-
Shaper not only achieves state-of-the-art performance on GAIA and WebWalkerQA benchmarks but also
introduces controllability over task design, enabling deliberate engineering of cognitive challenges for IS
agents. This formalization-driven paradigm shifts the focus from reactive information organization to
proactive task specification, opening new avenues for advancing agent capabilities.
15
